hello everyone good afternoon thank you
for coming to my talk um my name is Josh
I started and run this company called do
not pay I'm one of the few consumer
Founders that have snuck in to give a
talk um and do not pay as a robot lawyer
that helps consumers fight for their
legal rights we operate in over 200
areas of uh what people call consumer
rights things like getting people
refunds from landlords suing Comcast
cancelling
subscriptions and I'm sure the question
everyone has is why am I here and the
reason I'm here is that um from my
journey starting do not pay six years
ago I've learned a lot of unconventional
lessons that go go against uh kind of
the popular wisdom of um starting
scaling and distributing a product and
um I'm really excited to share those
lessons today so kind of to get started
I I should say I'm accidental
entrepreneur I never really knew I would
start a company um as you can probably
tell I'm British from my accent and when
I moved here um a few years ago um I
will use the excuse that the Americans
drive on the other side of the road but
uh it turns out I'm actually a terrible
driver and began to uh get all of these
really expensive parking tickets um
between the ages of uh so I'm 25 now
between the ages of 18 and 20 uh I
probably got around 30 parking tickets
and um it it was a serious problem
because I was a kind of broke college
student at Stanford um and I couldn't
afford to pay these $300 tickets and so
out of necessity I became an legal
expert just getting out of all the rules
and regulations of how parking tickets
work here in the Bay Area and what I
learned is remarkable which is if you
know the right things to say um you can
save a lot of money in life and um so I
I got the reputation in college as kind
of the guy who can get people out of
parking tickets and over time everyone
started coming out of the woodwork
people IID met once messaging me with
just a photo of their ticket saying can
you help and I tried to be nice since
I'm trying to make friends in this new
country so I was helping people um and
it was it got overwhelming for me uh one
day I was like uh spending 4 hours in
Microsoft Word copying and pasting
letters to send to the different like
San Mato County San Francisco county all
of these different authorities and I was
studying computer science at the time
and I thought there must be a better way
and so I created uh do not pay.com as a
way to get people out of their tickets
automatically and the way it works is
the software asks the consumer uh
several questions like was the parking
Bay too small or was there a tree
covering the signs and it uses their
answer to match them to a legal defense
once it finds a legal defense it
populates a letter goes on the
government website and does all the
clicking and submits it on their behalf
and really this was just a side project
to kind of save my friends and uh at
this point I'd also expanded to the UK
so I was helping out my UK friends and
family as well um but something
remarkable happened which is uh it
completely went viral in the first week
we we went from about uh 20 cases the
people I was no longer doing the copying
and pasting for um to tens of thousands
of cases and every News Network picked
it up and uh it went to the front page
of Reddit and all of all of this stuff
the website started crashing and this
taught me my first lesson as sort of an
accidental entrepreneur which is if you
can capture the Zeitgeist it's almost
like a cheat code when launching where
um it we live in such a noisy world of
like launching products and hiring
people but um if you can kind of tap
into something in like the psychology of
society uh you can be propelled much
more quickly and it propelled me to like
50,000 cases within a few
weeks and so uh the question is how how
can you capture the Zeitgeist and I did
it by accident but a more kind of
systematic approach would be you kind of
have to tap into two things so in my
case uh it was like David versus Goliath
everyone here hates parking tickets
hates the government hates these big
corporations and U this is really like
an emotional wrath appeal against uh
Goliath um and everyone is is sort of
David in in my product but there's
really two things that you can do in a
systematic way which is the first is
emotions and the second is current
events so emotions wrath greed lust and
envy so I'm obviously tapping into lust
I mean wrath uh but I mean yeah wrath
for sure um but other products uh like
you know dating apps tap into into lust
um but I'm sure and so I'm sure the
question you have is okay it's all right
for you but this is uh saster you're a
consumer founder what does this mean for
us so I I'll give you a few uh kind of
uh SAS examples so one of them is I just
picked this out it's a online ordering
SAS solution for restaurants and there's
two companies one is incentive um and
the other is owner and um I'm not
talking about the merits or anything
about either of the two companies but
one thing I'll say is on one homepage
says online ordering for restaurants
that's like a boring commoditized
tagline and the other says take and and
this is the top of the homepage so it's
their call message Take Back Control
from Uber Eats uh all these big
companies like Uber Eats are stealing
from you uh owner.com uh helps you as a
restaurant with your online ordering and
if you're a potential customer I think
it's obvious which one more emotionally
appeals to you and um this is a great
example of like capturing the Zeitgeist
all of these restaurants are being
scammed by these delivery platforms and
a sass solution can come in and fix the
problem
so sometimes uh the product is is so
boring that um you need to kind of have
an extra boost with current events and
Trends and this is something that I I've
done uh and I'm talk I'll talk about H
how I went from one product to 200
products but uh one example is when the
Equifax data breach happened and 350
million Americans uh had their names
addresses Social Security numbers some
Bank details leaked by Equifax uh we
built a product to fix that and um I'm
sure everyone's saying okay well that's
great for you but what are some sass
examples so um there are companies that
whenever there's like a climate
conference uh there this is a a return
uh SAS company that helps automate
returns couldn't be the more boring uh
business I hope I hope they're not here
um but they figured out how to kind of
tap into this climate event uh with with
reducing packaging and things like that
and then twilio uh with the Ukraine
crisis uh they're offering their
services and so current events are a
great example to show the value of your
solution because um you can offer it for
free to nonprofits or people who need it
and that gets ear media but it also um
allows people to imagine using your
product without being a
customer so what last thing I would say
as well uh in case there's any doubt um
do not pay we've done literally hundreds
of product launches uh we're
controversial but a political so
something that's controversial is we say
we hate robocallers uh actually that's
that's not that controversial what we
say is we want to replace all of the
lawyers and make the law free but it's
not political and um we don't generally
believe in taking a political side but
you can be controversial have a have a
kind of powerful message um but not
necessarily take a political side
because you want everyone to agree with
you and everyone in this audience hates
canceling subscriptions and so we want
to fix
that so going back to my story um I I
had all of this virality I was a student
um
and I made a deal with uh some investors
so uh there was one investor who got a
lot of parking tickets and actually used
our service um to get out of it and I
got into this whole kind of VC cycle on
Sand Hill Road given that I was uh
living nearby and one investor uh and
that investor was a partner at Andrew
Horowitz and they said well do you want
to take money for your company and I
said well um I do but I just got here it
was like my live stream to study in the
US and learn computer science here I
don't want to drop out and so I made a
special deal with Andrew and Horowitz
where they would invest a million
dollars in the kind of precede but I
wouldn't have to drop out and the reason
I uh bring this up here is it allowed me
to take my journey a lot slower than um
other companies um you you know you
typically see there's like a demo day in
six weeks like scale scale scale all of
this stuff but the money hit the hit the
company bank account and I I didn't do
anything with it for a while and by
taking it slowly it allowed it allowed
me to pick the right strategy for my
company um this idea seems obvious and
for every entrepreneur I think it's
really important to ask why now why
hasn't this idea been built before and
there SAS tools and apps to do
everything um especially for a mass
Market consumer thing like this why
hasn't the app that solves your consumer
rights problems being
built and after some uh slow like
research I realized that there was a
graveyard of companies that had tried
this idea there's a company called fixed
which helped people with parking tickets
in San Francisco which shut down there's
a company called service which helped
people with delayed flights which closed
there's a company called cushion which
helps people with bank fees um parabus
uh which help people automate credit
card uh price protection the founders of
par that shut down and the founders of
parabus since built ramp which is hugely
successful but all of these companies
were only focusing on one or two areas
of the law um and unless you're a bad
driver like me um the average American
only gets a parking ticket once a year
and so it's very difficult to build a
retentive product with just one use case
um espe very difficult to build a
retentive product but even impossible to
build a subscription business and so
this kind of taught me my second most
valuable lesson as an entrepreneur which
is um platform companies are more
valuable than uh Point Solutions and um
the MailChimp uh CEO was speaking
earlier about unbundling and and
bundling and um he says that we're very
much in the bundling bundling era and I
agree with him um it's much easier to
capture the Zeitgeist and build a
movement when you have a horizontal
platform that can be applied to hundreds
or thousands of areas than uh if you're
just building a parking ticket
company and so that's what I set out to
do I um rented a house in Palo Alto um
actually the house where Facebook was
started and we I just instead of
building any more products um I just
built started building SAS Integrations
with like twilio uh lob
API uh UI path bot Builders and things
like that and that allowed me to go from
one product parking tickets to over 200
today
so um I've got a way of launching
products I've got a kind of a strategy
to build products which is to
um be horizontal rather than vertical um
the the question I'm sure everyone has
is how do I actually distribute do not
pay to make sure that everyone here and
everyone in the world starts using it
and it's not enough to just have uh PR
articles what I found was um do not pay
was like on The Today Show twice it was
great the revenue grew the the uh usage
grew um but eventually um that's not a
sustainable strategy so you need to come
up with I needed to come up with a
long-term way to actually continue to
get customers
and um investor says most customers get
their uh most companies get their
customers from a single
strategy um and I agree with him you
look at companies like Airbnb it's
primarily SEO um SAS companies it could
be built-in virality uh when bra was
starting out they plastered San
Francisco with Billboards um so when I
was looking at this advice I thought
okay well if I have to only pick one or
primarily focus on one I should pick the
best one and I created a a framework for
different acquisition strategies and how
they applied to me and after talking to
a lot of people and seeing how a lot of
companies succeeded and failed I came up
with three
criteria for me it had it had to be
scalable profitable and organic so
happen naturally so scalable is is
pretty obvious um when I was starting do
not pay I was like uh messaging my
friends to use the website that's not
that's not
scalable profitable seems obvious but a
lot of companies um in 2021 were paying
$100 to acquire a customer um and only
making 70 bucks from that those
customers so I didn't want to do that um
and organic happens naturally is
probably the the least obvious and what
I mean by that is I love I love these
like um Cemetery pictures um but um if
the entire marketing team was to pass
away uh the acquisition strategy would
continue um and so that's kind of my
definition of or organic marketing
um so I looked at paid social paid
social is probably the worst acquisition
Channel especially with the Apple uh
privacy changes um I'm friends with a
lot of companies and that the Cs have
drastically increased and they haven't
been able to Target their customers
effectively um it's definitely not
organic once the marketing team stops
spending uh the ads will stop
running um I considered virality
virality is a great Channel because it
meets all of those three things that I
focused on but um and and two examples I
should say is one is figma and one is
ratl and so what I mean by virality is
virality is built into the product so
with figma you can't figma is a
collaborative uh design tool by
definition and so by definition if you
sign up for figma you have to invite
your teammates and and the same it's a
tried and tested story with things like
slack Etc and the same is true with
repet and they even have these like
viral words in their taglines like
together and things like that the
problem with me is that a lot of these
issues are very embarrassing uh if you
uh have bed bugs I'm not sure you want
to invite your friends to help you with
your do not pay legal issue so although
this is a very successful channel it's
not something that we could have used or
maybe we should be using it but we
haven't yet found the way to do it so
the second way is is a kind of organic
social so you see uh every six months a
new social app gets to the top of the
App Store and they're primarily tapping
into organic social to get there so you
see things like um these Anonymous uh
question apps and people can post
Anonymous uh ways for people to ask
questions or submit feedback um and to
get actually find out who who sent you
the anonymous things you have to post it
to your story and of course it goes
viral organically um and that's how they
get a lot of users the same the same can
be true in the Enterprise with various
campaigns like referral campaigns and
things like that um once again um people
do not want to advertise uh some of
their legal issues maybe it's it's very
embarrassing and taboo and so this
didn't work for us but I think it's a
great Channel um and it's helped a lot
of companies so I'm sure the question
everyone has is what what do we use and
the answer is
SEO so we started uh publish publishing
SEO articles by accident um just to uh
help our customer support team uh we
have hundreds of hundreds and hundreds
of thousands of people uh use do not
pay.com every hour and so our customer
support team were getting swamped and
unfortunately we're a software company
not a law firm but a lot of people
assume we're a law firm so they're
writing in asking for individualized
help with their legal issues and so we
began writing these SEO articles um and
out of luck or or because they were good
content uh Google started ranking them
for free and so we published this SEO
article for example 83b election which
is a tax filing uh everyone has to make
if they're a Founder um and Google
ranked it as number one and what we
began to see is wait a minute if this
works for this really Niche thing why
can't it work for 100 100,000 other
things and so we began to scale up
probably one of the biggest SEO oper
operations going at the moment we have a
team of 250 contract writers based in
Georgia the country um that pump out SEO
articles and um my and Google is
constantly changing its algorithm but my
view is that if you publish good content
that's manually written not AI generated
um Google wants to surface the kind of
white hat best answers to the question
so the way the product Journey works is
the user searches something like 83b
election f
and they come across this do not pay
article and the do not pay article tells
them step by step how to uh conduct
their 83b election filing but every
three paragraphs there's a big button
that says let do not pay solve it for me
and people are so lazy especially with
some of these consumer disputes like
suing United that they don't even read
three sentences they just click the
button and become our customer and um
we've seen this be hugely successful um
what if there are all these kind of SEO
companies like nerd wallet um and um
zenes is a great SEO company as well um
and on the consumer side a lot of them
monetize through um paid ads but uh
we're creating really a new model of a
SEO company that monetizes with mass
consumer SAS and um my goal is to turn
do not pay into one of the most popular
websites on the internet as of right now
this this chart is outdated we get about
6 million users visit our website a
month and I think in the next sort of 18
months we can scale it to kind of 60
million um using SEO and so you really
don't have to go overboard with trying
10 marketing channels um for us we only
focus on one our paid ads budget is zero
uh our referral budget is zero um we we
just focus on on one key
channel so we have a strategy to build
and distribute the product
um what did I learn in terms of Rel uh
in terms of building a team um and
actually executing on that
strategy so going back to my Stanford
days where I saw these companies uh blow
up in the consumer rights space um I
noticed that
um they all these SAS companies and
consumer companies have a tendency to
get very bloated they hire like VPS and
then the first thing the VPS do is they
hire uh five directors and then the
directors hire like five people each and
often times you hire someone and the
first thing they do is hire other people
and so I thought if I want to make do
not pay a success um we have to be
relatively lean um the second thing I
would say is that I knew do not pay
would take a while to build I've been at
it for six years um especially with this
horizontal strategy the YC uh Mantra is
you build one thing and you build it
well we're trying to build hundreds of
things and build it well and so I knew
it would take a while and if you have
mercenary team members um they're not
going to be uh motivated to kind of
stick it through the tough times and
we've had team members stay for three
four five years because uh everyone on
the do not pay team is the type of
person that like me stays up till 2 a.m.
surfing Reddit looking for consumer
rights hacks and everyone feels like is
is there mission to fight these big
companies in the government and by
having a kind of lean team and Mission
driven team um it allows us to respond
to current events and the Zeitgeist um
even to this day like when all these big
crypto companies were freezing deposits
we were sitting in our office on Town
xen Street in San Francisco uh eating
Panda Express and we managed to build a
solution in two days and that's really
important for capturing the Zeitgeist
because these issues very Timely once uh
they once a few days or a few weeks go
by it's no longer relevant so you really
want a team to kind of build these
features and products quickly and the
final thing I would say is um at least
until maybe 50 or 100 people everyone
should be Technical and I'm I mean that
by like a very broad definition of
technical which is they're a builder so
they're a designer engineer really good
at sales things like that but you don't
want to hire these uh sort of Str people
because they they kind of slow the
business down and so we don't do like uh
Business Development or strategy because
um you really just want to be building
and selling in your early days um so to
kind of sum up um capturing the
Zeitgeist is a cheat code for every
product launch and announcement um you
can only build a movement as a
horizontal company if you're a vertical
platform for dentists uh it's very
difficult to get people excited about
that and um expand um
horizontally um a movement requires
often one very successful acquisition
strategy for us as St but there are
several other good ones which I
highlighted um and you should make sure
your team is behind you and they should
be Mission driven Technical and
[Music]
lean for